Throughout this course, I will be referencing several roles.
An Agile or Scrum team has a slightly different composition than a
traditional project with three specific roles.
The first is the product owner who is the person responsible
for managing the business requirements.
Those requirements are also known as the product backlog.
We'll be going into greater detail of the backlog and
backlog planning in the next module.
Nonetheless,
the product owner has a very key and critical role
of gathering the requirements, ordering or prioritizing the requirements,
and ascertaining the value of each to the business.
Next is the development team.
And because Agile/Scrum teams are cross- functional,
a development team includes testers, designers,
OPs engineers, or any other skills or capabilities required,
in addition to developers, of course.
And lastly, in the Scrum world,
the Scrum Master role is added to facilitate the Scrum process itself.
This course will adhere to Agile practices and Scrum practices,
which are very similar, but not necessarily identical.
I have added here the role of technical lead.
In so many companies today,
this role is very common in the absence of the Scrum Master.
Now, to be clear,
the technical lead role still performs the Scrum Master role in
ensuring the Scrum practices are followed,
but also provides some amount of team leadership and oversight.
Now let's add a little more detail and context on the next slide.
Here is some additional context.
The product owner may represent a line of business,
steering committee, department,
or other segments of the user or customer communities.
The product owner needs to express the items clearly so they are
understandable by the development team and prioritize them so the
development team knows what to do and what to work on next.
Development teams are cross-functional, as mentioned,
but working concurrently together.
I wanted to emphasize this since in the traditional project model,
typically code is developed, then tested,
and then moved into pre-production environments as
separate teams and/or processes.
This team is working together concurrently throughout the development process.
Now in the Scrum world,
the Scrum Master is facilitating the adherence to the Scrum process,
and the team is self-directed, that is, without a team leader.
What I've seen so often in the absence though of the Scrum Master is a
team leader or tech leader that still provides the Agile/Scrum process
guidance along with critical team leadership.
Now for a point of view.
Here is my point of view: Perceived value of the Scrum Master role.
I have observed in many organizations that proclaim
to be using Agile/Scrum processes,
but are not using Scrum Masters because they believe rightly
or wrongly that they "do not do enough",
not my words.
They may be using project leaders or managers,
technical leaders or people with the title of Scrum Master,
but not following the official Scrum Master role.
I suggest to you that, well, this is fine.
Organizations need to adapt and be flexible to meet the needs of the business,
budgets, and especially available skills.
By the way,
the migration from traditional development to Agile
development may take a couple of years,
and I would rather an organization be moving that direction,
albeit not perfectly.
Repurposing project managers to Scrum Masters may also be an option.
Another common observation in organizations that are migrating from
traditional application development to Agile/Scrum development is
the opportunity to retrain project managers or project leaders to
fulfill the Scrum Master role.
I like this approach a lot since their background in
project management will come in quite handy.
Is there a role for a technical leader instead of the Scrum Master?
I say yes.
And quite frankly, I prefer this approach,
especially when you are embarking on the migration to Agile development.
Is the product owner up to the task?
Not all product owners have the skills to do what I
described on the previous slide, and you,
as the team lead or team member,
must coach and guide the product owner to fulfill his or her role.
In one case,
I observed the IT organization pairing up a business
analyst with each product owner.
This was immensely successful in providing
high-quality requirements and backlog.
This point of view illustrates that life may not be
perfect in your organization, so set your expectations accordingly,
and adapt and be flexible. Now let's examine the Agile project lifecycle in detail.